---
layout: post
title: "I joined the Greens and here's why"
published: false
---

Before the election, I kept hearing similar conversations, at work or out and about. In short, the low-waged buying into the newspaper/Conservative narrative that it is the rest of the lower class responsible for the financial situation of the country.

## On Benefits and BMW ownership

They didn't put it in quite those terms, of course. One colleague at a job I recently left remarked that he knew someone "on benefits who's just bought a Beemer" and everyone else nodded, knowingly. Before I get to the meat of this post, I just want to take a second to examine what this means.

On the face of it, a BMW is a luxury car and being a claiment of benefits is a situation where you're expected not to afford luxuries. Benefits can, as I'm sure we all know, include a range of things such as disability, child benefit, council tax, job-seekers' allowance and various other things.

So for all I know our BMW owner is disabled, looking for a job, a parent, or all three? In any of these situations I imagine purchasing a car makes sense. Quite a few jobs are available to the willing driver. For many people with disabilities, a safe and reliable means of transport is a lifeline. For parents the merits of a car are probably similarly obvious.

So what's the issue? Is it that this car is a BMW? Is a BMW too good for someone receiving financial assistance from the state? This seems to be what my former colleague was implying and everyone else seemed to accept.

Again, without really considering too hard we can imagine there might be good reasoning behind buying a BMW. Typically they are slightly more expensive than a comparable car of an alternative brand, but perhaps our person found a good deal? Maybe it was the best option for someone with a physical disability, perhaps in a wheelchair and needing a vehicle of specific dimensions. Maybe they had saved for it and it was a luxury they had budgeted for and simply felt they deserved in their life?

## A Vote for Envy

I want to say something unfashionable that I should have said to this young co-worker I knew. It's not up to everyone else how you spend your benefit money. The poor or out of work or disabled are still allowed to save for things that make them happy.

I shouldn't say this because some Tory will change it, but when you develop a disability or lose your job, no-one turns up to confiscate your non-essential possessions, though in my experience they do largely end up being taken to CEX.

To an extent, I can see why this young guy I worked with was jealous. Cars are nice things to own. He felt that he worked hard and should be able to afford one himself. But should that give him the right to judge someone else whose position he is unlikely to fully understand for having something he wants?

In this way, the government and the media have set the poorest in society against each other, for their own ends. We all hate each other because we can't own everything we want and there's always some bastard with that thing you wish you could afford.

We know why this is the case. Big business wants the government to budget in a particular way, a way that should be unpalatable to the majority. Making us hate each other and jealous of each other is one way of making us elect the government that will make things tougher for low earners.

## A different way

I believe we should make a decision not to succumb to this nonsense. I want to be part of the movement that will build a society that looks after our vulnerable, our planet and our freedoms.

The villains in our society aren't the poor. Newspapers and politicians would have us believe that there is a class of freeloaders, scroungers, whatever the word they're currently using might be to demonise people with low pay or maybe no job at all. They subscribe to the idea that the poor just aren't working hard enough, that the successful are there on merit. There's no room for the thought that the people in charge were in the right place at the right time or that the majority of people are doing the best they can for themselves and their families.
